1/16/18:
Read Beta-Plane Magnetohydrodynamic Turbulence in the Solar Tachocline by Steven Tobias, Patrick Diamond, and Divid Hughes
Notes:
Tachocline is thin layer of strong radial shear at the base of solar convection zone it consists of 2 layers upper and lower 
it is a transition region. Upper layer is coupled strongly with convection zone above and has strong toroidal mag field generated
by solar dynamo. Not much known about lower layer except it is very stably stratified.
CENTRAL QUESTION: whether stably stratified turbulence does indeed act as a viscosity (friction) in redistributing angular
momentum on long timescales

The degree of stratification in a shear flow is often measured by the
Richardson number Ri; in the lower tachocline , and 3 Ri ≈ 10

The Rossby number Ro measures the ratio of inertial to Coriolis terms; in the tacho-
cline, Ro ≈ 0.1–1 uncertainty due to difficulties in estimating typical flow speeds.

Ekman number, a measure of the relative importance of viscous to
Coriolis terms, is exceptionally small 11 E ≈ 10

magnetic Reynolds number is given by Rm = RoE^-1 Pm
Pm is the magnetic Prandtl number. For the tachocline, Rm ≈ 10 –10

The governing equations of our model are the forced momentum equation for an incompressible fluid with unit density
together with the magnetic induction equation

In order to include the effects of rotation in such a model, it is
necessary to employ the b-plane approximation, where only the
vertical component of rotation is retained

Equations (4) and (5) are solved using standard pseu-
dospectral techniques on a parallel computer. (Why psuedospectral? are we using spectral methods?)

sampled wavenumbers 14-20

do not include any sink term to remove energy at large scales.

what does beta value indicate again?

We are trying to replicate in 3-d?

The magnetic field is wrapped up and amplified into small-scale fields by the driven
turbulence. This small-scale field exerts a Maxwell stress on
the fluid that opposes the sense of the correlations that drive
the mean flow. If this Maxwell stress is large enough, then the
Reynolds stresses can be canceled (on average) and the mech-
anism for driving the mean zonal flows switched off.

Maxwell stress definition: a second order tensor used in classical electromagnetism to represent the interaction bewtween
electromagnetic forces and mechanical momentum.



1/17/18: Re-introducing myself to running scripts on Leavitt

How do I proxy to Leavitt again?


